## Final Self Reflection - Ryan Rubadue

### Individual Contribution Summary
Though my group primarily worked together for a significant portion of the project, there are several aspects I was primarily responsible for. Our project involves research into extracting meaningful information from long text documents filled with ‘noise’ and outputting easy-to-understand visualizations to communicate our findings. One area I oversaw was pre-processing the text documents, which involved making sure the text was formatted in a consistent way as well as calculating statistics about several text features. Another part of the project I largely oversaw was how to properly group the text data into clusters using a clustering algorithm. I also played a large part in producing our visualizations for the results we obtained and tested the code on a secondary dataset. Overall, for most of the project all three group members worked together and had a large role to play in each portion of the codebase.

### Competencies and Skills Learned
This semester, I believe that I did a good job of building on the skills identified in my fall assessment. One thing I mentioned in my fall assessment was setting meaningful goals and looking for feedback from my other project members and advisor. Throughout the spring semester, I was able to set attainable goals focusing on individual project features and believe I stayed properly coordinated with the other group members and advisor. One lesson I learned is to stay open to new possibilities throughout the development process. As our project is research-based, the specific questions our team was trying to answer as the year went on shifted and constantly developed, which I did not necessarily expect going into the semester. Overall, I am proud of what I was able to accomplish with the project and I believe our team performed valuable research. One thing I was worried about was my prior lack of exposure to text document analysis, but with proper research and studying feel I am now knowledgeable in the area.

